Author: Chris P Bacon
Title: How to Write in APA
Date: 2024

Abstract
The Abstract page should already include the page number. On the first line of the Abstract page, 
center and bold the word “Abstract” (no italics, underlining, or quotation marks). Beginning with 
the next line, write a concise summary of the key points of your research. (Do not indent.)
Abstracts often provide an overview of the research topic, research questions, participants, 
methods, results, data analysis, and conclusions. You may also include possible implications of
your research and future work you see connected with your findings. The Abstract should be a
single, double-spaced paragraph. The Abstract should be less than 250 words. A list of keywords
from your paper generally follows the Abstract. To do this, indent as you would if starting a new
paragraph, type “Keywords:” in italics, and then list the keywords. These keywords are intended 
to be used in research databases to help readers find your work. Take a look at the example
below. All of the above information was taken from the Purdue Online Writing Lab. 
Keywords: APA, heading, citation, style, formatting

With American Psychological Association (APA) style, the first heading should never be
“Introduction.” Instead, the paper’s title should be used. It is assumed that the paper begins with 
an introduction. The entire paper is to be double-spaced throughout. According to the 7th edition 
of the Publication Manual of the American Psychological Association, the font should be
accessible (i.e., easy to read) and consistent throughout the draft. Checking with your instructor
about their requirements is always a good idea. The APA does recommend the following fonts:
11-point Calibri, 11-point Arial, 10-point Lucida Sans Unicode, 12-point Times New Roman, 
11-point Georgia, and 10-point Computer Modern. Margins should be 1” all around unless
otherwise indicated by instructor. 
This is a First-Level Heading with Bold Lettering
The use of a first-level heading here indicates that your introduction has concluded, and 
you are starting a new section of your paper. One of the most important aspects of APA style is
in-text citation. In general, the author’s name and the year should be included, with a comma
separating the two (Rogers, 1999). Remember that the period always comes after the citation to 
enclose it with the sentence. When there are three or more authors, the first author’s last name is
used, followed by, “et al.”, which means “and others” in Latin (Rogers et al., 2005). Note that 
there is a period at the end of the phrase “et al.” Also, if the same source is used again in the 
same paragraph, then the year may be omitted (Rogers et al.). However, this is only if both 
citations are in the same paragraph.
This is a Second-Level Heading with Bold Lettering
According to Daniels (2009), the citation can also be put at the beginning of the sentence
when the source is directly mentioned and does not need to be cited again at the end of the
4
sentence. In some cases, multiple sources are cited to support one point, in which case the 
sources are separated by semicolons (Rogers et al., 2005; Nakachi, 2010). 
This is a Third-Level Heading with Bold and Italicized Lettering
In addition, according to Nakachi (2010), “whenever quoting or using quantitative data
from a source, a page number is required” (p. 5). In this example, the author’s last name and year
were mentioned at the beginning of the sentence, and the page number was placed at the end. 
Rogers et al. (2005) discovered that 50% of students will forget to include page and paragraph 
numbers when citing quantitative data (para. 3). The two rules to remember here are that the
author’s name and year of publication should never be separated, and at the same time, the page
number should always be at the end of a quote. If the author’s name is not used in the body of the
sentence, the in-text citation “can also be set up so that all the information is at the end of the
quote” (Nakachi, 2010, p. 6).

References
APA Style Introduction. (2021). Purdue Online Writing Lab. 
https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/apa_style/apa_style_introduction.html
Plath, S. (2000). The unabridged journals. (K. V. Kukil, Ed.). Anchor.
Price, D. (2018, March 23). Laziness does not exist. Medium. 
https://humanparts.medium.com/laziness-does-not-exist-3af27e312d01
Rogers, J. T. (1999). Citation styles in scholarly research: Notations for various professions. 
Journal of Citation, 1(2), 16-28.
Rogers, A. H., Nakashita, G. H., & Chung, L. R. (2005). Why citation styles are important. 
Journal of Citation, 5(10), 12-26.